In this video, I will introduce
you to log likelihoods.
These are just logarithms of
the probabilities we're
calculating from the last video.
They are way more
convenient to work with
and they appeared throughout
deep learning and NLP.
Let's go back to the
table you saw previously
that contains the conditional
probabilities of each word.
For positive or
negative sentiment.
Words can have many
shades of emotional
meaning,but for the purpose
of sentiment classification,
they're simplified
into three categories;
neutral, positive, and negative.
All can be identified by
using their conditional
probabilities.
These categories can be
numerically estimated just by
dividing the
corresponding conditional
probabilities of this table.
Now, let's see how this ratio
looks for the words
in your vocabulary.
The ratio for the word I is
0.2 divided by 0.2 or 1.
The ratio for the
word am is again 1.
The ratio for the word happy is
0.14 divided by 0.1 or 1.4.
Do the same for because,
learning, and NLP.
The ratio is 1.
For sad and not the ratio is
0.1 divided by 0.15 or 0.6.
Again, neutral words have
a ratio in your one.
Positive words have a
ratio larger than 1.
The larger the ratio,
the more positive the
words are going to be.
On the other hand,
negative words
have a ratio smaller than 1.
The smaller the value,
the more negative the word.
In this week's assignment,
you'll implement a function
that filters words
depending on their
positivity or negativity.
You will find the
expression shown
here to be very
helpful with that.
These ratios are essential in
Naive Bayes' for
binary classification.
I'll illustrate why using an
example you've seen before.
Recall earlier, where you use
the formula to categorize
a tweet as positive
if the products of the
corresponding ratios of
every word appears in the
tweet is bigger than 1.
We said it was negative,
if it was less than 1.
This is called the likelihood.
If you were to take a ratio
between the positive
and negative tweets,
you'd have what's
called the prior ratio.
I haven't mentioned it till
now because in this
small example,
you had exactly the same number
of positive and negative tweets,
making the ratio 1.
In this week's assignments,
you'll have a
balanced data-sets.
You'll be working
with a ratio of 1.
In the future though,
when you're building
your own application,
remember that this term becomes
important for
unbalanced data-sets.
With the addition
of the prior ratio,
you now have the full
Naive Bayes' formula
for binary classification.
A simple, fast and
powerful method that
you can use to establish
a baseline quickly.
Now, it's a good time to mention
some other important
considerations for
your implementation
of Naive Bayes'.
Sentiments probability
calculation requires
multiplication of many numbers
with values between 0 and 1.
Carrying out such
multiplications
on a computer runs the risk of
numerical underflow when
the number returned
is so small if can't be
stored on your device.
Luckily, there is a mathematical
trick to solve this.
It involves using a
property of logarithms.
Recall that the formula you're
using to calculate a score for
Naive Bayes' is the prior
multiplied by the likelihood.
The trick is to use a log of
the score instead
of the raw score.
This allows you to write
the previous expression as
the sum of the log prior
and the log likelihood,
which is a sum of
the logarithms of
the conditional
probability ratio
of all unique words
in your corpus.
Let's use this
method to classify
the tweets: I'm happy
because I'm learning.
Remember how you used the
Naive Bayes' inference condition
earlier to get the sentiment
score for your tweets.
Now, you're going
to do something
very similar to get
the log of your score.
What you'll need to
calculate the log of
the score is called the Lambda.
This is the log of the
ratio of the probability,
that your word is
positive and you
divide that by the probability
that the word is negative.
Now, let's calculate Lambda for
every word in our vocabulary.
For the word I, you
get the logarithm
of 0.05 divided by 0.05,
or the logarithm of 1,
which is equal to 0.
Remember, the tweets
will be labeled
positive if the product
is larger than 1.
By this logic, I would be
classified as neutral at 0.
For am, you take the
log of 0.04 over 0.04,
which again is equal to 0.
You enter 0 in the table.
For happy, you get
a Lambda of 2.2,
which is greater than 0,
indicating a positive sentiment.
From here on out,
you can calculate
the log score of
the entire corpus just by
summing out the Lambdas.
You're almost done with
the log-likelihood.
Let's stop here and take
a quick look back at
what you did so far.
Words are often
emotionally ambiguous,
but you can simplify them into
three categories
and then measure
exactly where they fall within
those categories for
binary classification.
You do so by dividing
the conditional probabilities of
the words in each category.
This ratio can be expressed
as a logarithm as
well called Lambda,
and you can use that to
reduce the risk of
numerical underflow.
In this video, you learned about
the ratio of positive
words and negative words.
The higher the ratio is,
the more positive the
words are going to be.
As the number of words we are
using gets larger and larger,
then we are very likely to get
a product that is
very close to 0.
Hence, we end up taking
the log of that ratio.